Sonic Potions LXR Drumsynth Firmware
====================================

This is a fork of the LXR DrumSynth firmware. My intention for this fork is to add features and fix issues
that are important to me. I will be freely offering any changes back to the SonicPotions repository.
The custom firmware is <a href="https://github.com/rudeog/LXR/raw/master/firmware%20image/FIRMWARE.BIN">RIGHT HERE</a> (right click the link and do save as).

Here are a list of current changes (differences from Sonic Potions repos):
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Midi note off fixes. Will send midi off when changing pattern, channel or muting voice
- MTC sync. Will now recognize MIDI MTC quarter frames and start when it receives a 0:0:0 location, and stop when MTC stops
- Program change. Will respond to program change and will change between the 8 patterns when received via MIDI port. For programs > 7 will use remainder when divided by 8. Also will send on MIDI
- Program change. Will send program change 1 to 8 on MIDI when manually changing drum patterns.

Here are a list of changes that are now merged back into the Sonic Potions repos:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Pattern/Kit save will use a proper cursor when editing names
- Midi Off - Will now send midi note off messages before the next midi note on message and also when
  the sequencer is stopped. This allows better interaction with external synths.
- Note names - instead of showing -63 to 64 it will show real note names like C, C# D, etc. This is useful when using the LXR as a sequencer
- Midi Note. Each voice has an assigned midi note. If this is set to C0 then it will play the note assigned to the sequencer step, otherwise it will play this note. This replaces the standard behavior and allows one to set the note that is played for the drum sound (old behavior was to have the note fixed when in trigger mode).
- Midi mode has been removed (the above feature allows more flexibility)
- LFO target fixes - Setting LFO targets is now much easier. The list of targets is straightforward and more descriptive. There are no missing entries or dupes.
- Velocity target - Same type of fix as LFO target
- Automation target - Same type of fix as LFO target. Also menu is more descriptive.
- Separate open and closed hi-hat EG decay onto separate drum buttons to make it clearer which one is being edited.
- Fixed some minor bugs that were annoying me.
- Add Eclipse CDT support for AVR. This allows all development of front and mainboard to be done in one 
  Eclipse workspace, and gets rid of the need for installing AVR studio
- Remove generated files. These makefiles are generated by eclipse and contain local paths etc. No need
  for them in the source tree.
- Fix firmware image builder to accept command line parameters, and create new batch file


Instructions for building:
--------------------------

1.  Install Eclipse Juno CDT (You could install a later version, but this is the version I have working)

2.  Install the Eclipse GNU ARM plugin. Go into the help menu, Install new Software, add a site: http://gnuarmeclipse.sourceforge.net/updates. Then check the box to install that plugin.

3.  Download and install the GCC ARM toolchain https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded/+download

4.  Download and install gnu make: http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm

5.  Download and install Atmel AVR toolchain from http://www.atmel.com/tools/ATMELAVRTOOLCHAINFORWINDOWS.aspx (you don't need the headers package)

6.  Ensure that the bin directory from 3, 4, and 5 are on the path. I made a batch file that adds these 3 bin directories to my path and launches eclipse.

7.  Fetch the LXR sources from github. You can either install git and do it the git way, or download a zip and unzip it.

8.  In Eclipse, create a workspace in root folder of whole tree that you unzipped (or git'd).

9.  Add two project dirs mainboard\firmware\DrumSynth_FPU and front\AVR to the workspace. To do this, use File/Import/General/Existing projects into workspace. Then select root directory and browse to these dirs. Do this step once for each of these two dirs. You will end up with two projects in your workspace.

10.  These should build. Eclipse is a bit squirrely, so you might need to do a make clean first to create the first makefiles, or rebuild indexes.

11.  I've built the firmwareimagebuilder.exe in the \tools\bin folder. I've also put a batch file that launches it and copies the binaries from the respective output directories to create FIRMWARE.BIN in that same dir. If you don't trust the .EXE I built, you will need to build it from tools\FirmwareImageBuilder\FirmwareImageBuilder. As is you will need visual studio. If you don't have it, you can try to install the free version, mingw, etc and compile the one file FirmwareImageBuilder.cpp (I've fixed it so it should build with any tool) and make your own exe and copy it to that dir.

12.  Thats it, after running the batch file you will have your firmware file. 

More Info
---------

Please visit https://github.com/SonicPotions/LXR for the original firmware

- The 'front' folder contains the AVR code

- The 'mainboard' folder contains the STM32F4 code

- The 'tools' folder contains the firmware image builder tool, to combine AVR 
  and Cortex code into a single file, usable by the bootloader. This requires visual studio to compile right now.
